## Stimuli List

We will be running experiments to test what visual features matter most in amplitude modulation. This is a list, sorted by importance, of stimuli features to test. 

**Do flies only sing to other flies or will they sing to anything that moves?**

**Can we find something that induces singing but not amplitude modulation?**

**How about pulses but not sine? Are they controlled by different circuits?**



1. It shouldn't take long to replicate some of the data that Pip acquired just to become acquainted with running fly on a ball experiments. 

2. Bifurcation points in nature of static visual stimulus. The goal here is break the fly's visual recognition system. Here are a bunch of things that we can modulate. 

   1. **Shape:** Outline of `[Box, Circle, Random]` vs `[Box, Circle, Random]`
   2. **Color**: must it be black or do things at the opposite end of the perceptual spectrum work as well (I will need to do some reading on fly color theory)
   3. **Complexity**: present the fly with images of human faces, scenes, random noise

   ​

3. **Dynamical Stimuli: **

   1. Is the fly responsive to azimuthal and distal **jitter**?
   2. Stimulus flickers or **disappears** for different intervals, **specifically 470ms and 30ms.** 
   3. Stimulus **changes shape and color**
   4. Only azimuthal or only distal movement or must they be correlated. 
      ​

   ​

4. **Preference**

   1. Two stimuli, one in each eye

   2. Hundreds of dots moving around the screen

      ​