## June 27th: Literature Sweep on Visual Stimuli Sensitivities



### Stimulus-Selective Properties of Inferior Temporal Neurons in the Macaque (Desimone et. al., 1984)

- It would be nice to try to replicate these findings in flies by figuring out what constitutes a fly. 


- Does color matter? To what extent does shape matter? 


- It would be disheartening if things were too easy. 

### Object-based attention determines dominance in binocular rivalry (Mitchell, et. al. 2004)

- The study looks at these results in humans


- Is competition stimulus based or eye based?
- Spatial preference. What about stimulus preference?
- See the paper for the experimental methods
- Humans consistently show preference for *cued surface*, i.e., the surface that exhibits translation. 
  - This was **not** due to **spatial** or **feature** preferences, (a) because all stimuli occupied the same portion of visual space, and (b) both directions of rotation were present
- Performance is better in judging individual features if they belong to the same object
- **Cued objects dominate during rivalry**
- ​

### Virtual-Reality Techniques Resolve the Visual Cues Used by Fruit Flies to Evaluate Object Distances (Schuster et. al., 2002)

- Only azimuthal position influences preference. Looming size does not in experiments where parallalx cues are also available. 

- Context specific neglect of distance from looming

  (i) The size of object looming was not much more than the size of visual cues during free flight. 

  (ii) Deprived of feedback from motion parallax, flies preferred virtual objects

- Objects at distances greater thn $200mm$ were avoided and flies preferred identical objects at much closer distance.

- Direction dependent evaluation of distance information

### Sensorimotor Translations Underlying Variability in Song Intensity during Drosophila Courtship (Coen et. al., 2016)

- Novel monocular cues, so presenting to each eye individually works and optical overlap region shows same sensitivity as monocular regions. Does not result from comparison of visual signals. 
- Only modulates for unblocked eye–**does this mean they will revert to maximal level if it is presented to the blocked eye?**
- Male self motion $\text{mFv}$ not relevent. 
- Macro information integrated over 470ms timescales and updated at ~35ms resolution
- Use alternative (olfactory, etc.) cues for $\|\mathbf{r}\| < 5mm$. 
- If the female is not visible then the flies will revert to some maximal intensity level. 
- Requires scaling of the entire object, so changes to aspect ratio wont work (**does this tell of internal tracking mechanisms?**)
- *Parallax?* No. This doesn't do the trick. $\text{Dis}$ was a better predictor of amplitude than was $\Delta |\text{femAng}|$ . Also, female motion didn't affect amplitude so there was no correlation. 
- *Looming?* Changes to the size of the object on the retina along both $\hat{\mathbf{j}}$ and $\hat{\mathbf{i}}$ directions is required. 

Where do these discrete behavioral rules come from?