---
title: Physics of Sound Creation and Its Relevance
author: Akiva Lipshitz
date: June 22, 2017

---

In an email to Talmo Pereira, I wrote:

>  As a side matter of interest, which can potentially become relevant, I am interested in the physics of how Drosophila create sound. In particular, I’m wondering whether there is a simple mapping from wing frequency to frequency of the sound created by drosophila. This is helpful for the below:

> From basic physics we know that sound intensity drops off $I\propto \frac{1}{r^2}$ . I also know (Weber and Fechner) that humans perceive sound on a logarithmic decibel scale. Is there a similar result for Drosophila sound perception you can recall? I’m interested in this because if so, there is a clear optimal sound intensity for the observer fly then it would be very interesting to see if 
>
> 1. Drosophila try to conserve this quantity by nonlinearly adjusting the amplitude of the sound they make
> 2. Use the error in this value as a proxy for their internal estimation of their distance to the other fly (such as when you turn off the lights and look at the MSE curves over some time horizon between expected intensity and actual intensity). Coen et. al., 2016 showed that amplitude modulation does occur and distance was the most predictive covariate with sound amplitude. 

Then he responded:

> So this would be a good example of the type of system that could be modeled pretty explicitly using the biophysics.
>
> That said, we might want to stop and think about what the behavioral program might be that gives rise to sound:
>
> 1. Male is in a receptive state: not sleeping, not hungry, not thirsty, hasn't copulated recently
> 2. Male is in a courtship state: this happens through a combination of olfactory/gustatory stimulus by tapping the virgin female (mated females are coated with male hormones)
> 3. Male gets visual stimulus that he interprets as female
> 4. Male makes decision to sing based on arousal level and distance estimation (also decides which song mode)
> 5. Male uses visual stimulus to calculate how to orient, which wing to use and how hard to vibrate
> 6. Courtship neurons send signal down to descending neurons that project down the VNC
> 7. Descending neurons talk to motor command neurons that control wing muscles
>
> So given that very literal neural "program", which latent variables would we want to predict? Candidates include:
>
> - the gating states (not hungry, etc.)
> - the arousal level (probably encoded in neural activity of P1 neurons or something close)
> - the distance/visual estimate of female's position (probably encoded in visual LC neurons)
> - the motor parameters for orienting (who the fuck knows, maybe central complex)
>
> So yeah, we don't really need anything incredibly fancy like nonparametric Bayes -- we have a pretty decent grasp of the biology.



A theoretical result on what must be done to conserve observed sound signal intensity can inform out experimentation. 

From physics, $I = k\frac{P(r)}{r^2}$. Because of the dependence of $P$ on $r$, we can differentiate wrt to $r$ and observe conservation of intensity, $\frac{d}{dr}I = 0$, when $P \ne 0$ .
$$
\frac{d}{dr}I = k\frac{P'(r)}{r^2} -2k\frac{P(r)}{r^3} =0
$$
this comes to a differential equation
$$
\frac{dP}{dr} = 2\frac{P(r)}{r}
$$
whose solution is 
$$
P(r) \propto Cr^2
$$
Equation (3) must hold if intensity is to be conserved. 

Now suppose there is some optimal intensity for fly communication call it $I_{opt}$. If two flies are of distance $r$ apart, the pressure at that distance is be $P(r) = I_ {opt}\frac{r^2}{k}$. If we can get the pressure at that point to have the given intensity then intensity is conserved. Well pressure drops off $P = \alpha 1/r$ where $\alpha$ is a constant of proportionality. So we have 
$$
P = \frac{P_0}{r} = kI_{opt}r^2 
$$
yielding explicitly
$$
P_0 = kI_{opt}r^3
$$
We can confirm with equation (3) that equation (5) does in fact make sense. 

Therefore, we should thus expect a third degree polynomial to exhibit the best fit.I'm not sure how to reconcile this with the differential equation solution