## Deriving Projections on Planes

This is simple projective geometry stuff, your standard computer graphics problem. As I've never actually worked with computer graphics I need to derive these things myself. 

The problem is to determine the proper dimensions of a virtual fly projected onto the video-screen. 

The origin is defined as the real position of the male fly, $\mathbf{P}_\text{M} = \mathbf{0}$, with the male fly facing in the direction $\hat{\mathbf{j}}$. The video monitor is represented as a plane with normal $\hat{\mathbf{j}}$ and a point $\mathbf{V} = \left[ 0, D, 0 \right]$, where $D$ measures the distance between the male fly and the video monitor. The video moniot is then a plane defined by the equation $(\mathbf{r}-\mathbf{V})\cdot \hat{\mathbf{j}} = 0$

Suppose the female fly is located at an azimuthal position $\phi$ relative to $\mathbf{\hat{j}}$ at a distance $R$ from the male fly. In cartesian coordinates, this becomes $\mathbf{P_F}= \left[ R\sin\phi, R\cos\phi, 0\right]$ 

If a light beam comes from the centroid of the female fly, we would like to know where this beam hits the plane. 

Take the normalized line between the male and female fly 
$$
\mathbf{P}_\Delta = \frac{\mathbf{P}_M - \mathbf{P}_F}{\|\mathbf{P}_M - \mathbf{P}_F\|} 
$$
Define a line 
$$
\mathbf{l}(t) = t\mathbf{P}_\Delta + \mathbf{P}_M
$$
We would like to find where this line coming from the male intersects the screen. 
$$
\begin{align}
(\mathbf{l}(t)-\mathbf{V})\cdot\mathbf{\hat{j}} &= 0 \\
t\mathbf{P}_\Delta\cdot\mathbf{\hat{j}} + (\mathbf{P}_M-\mathbf{V})\cdot\mathbf{\hat{j}} &=0 \\
t &=\frac{(\mathbf{V}- \mathbf{P}_M )\cdot\mathbf{\hat{j}} }{\mathbf{P}_\Delta\cdot\mathbf{\hat{j}} }
\end{align}
$$
Thus, the projective position of the female on the video monitor is
$$
\mathbf{P}^\prime_F = \left[\frac{(\mathbf{V}- \mathbf{P}_M )\cdot\mathbf{\hat{j}} }{\mathbf{P}_\Delta\cdot\mathbf{\hat{j}} }\right]\mathbf{P}_\Delta + \mathbf{P}_M
$$
 This is neat but it only gives the position of the female's centroid. We would really like to see the projective position of the  female's bounding box. 

From $(6)$, the projective bounding box dimensions scale nonlinearly. However, this need not be worried about, as $(6)$ is easy to implement in MATLAB and can easily be used twice, once for the bounding box sides and once for the bounding box. 